# Predictive-Analytics-for-Hospital-Readmission

# Abstract

Diabetes is the one of the most common chronic disease in the United States. In this project, we use a diabetes dataset from UCI Machine Learning Repository, which represents 10 years of clinical care at 130 US hospitals and includes over 50 features representing patient and hospital outcomes. In general, we conduct analyses on three major topics: prediction of readmission at patient's first encounter, prediction of diabetic medication prescription at patient's first encounter, and finding overall patterns of medication usage. With multiple machine learning models, all of them can beat the majority baseline and the best model for patient readmission prediction is logistic regression. However, for the diabetic medication prescription prediction task, the average accuracy of all models are all close to the majority baseline. It shows that patients' demographic, encounter, and diagnosis information is really useful for predicting readmission, but diabetic medication prescription prediction might need more information. For overall patterns of medication usage, we find that Metformin and Insulin are more popular than other medicines. And to get the appropriate amounts of rules, association rules are more lenient with binarized medication data, and more strict with ordinal data without dropping the "No" option.We also find that dropping the "No" option when exploring with ordinal data helps reduce the noise due to high data density and provide more insights into the more interesting patterns.	

# Background

From the latest CDC report, More than 100 million U.S. adults are now living with diabetes or prediabetes. The report finds that as of 2015, 30.3 million Americans ??? 9.4 percent of the U.S. population ??? have diabetes. Another 84.1 million have prediabetes, a condition that if not treated often leads to type 2 diabetes within five years. The report confirms that the rate of new diabetes diagnoses remains steady. However, the disease continues to represent a growing health problem: Diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death in the U.S. in 2015. Diabetes is a serious disease that can often be managed through physical activity, diet, and the appropriate use of insulin and other medications to control blood sugar levels. People with diabetes are at increased risk of serious health complications including premature death, vision loss, heart disease, stroke, kidney failure, and amputation of toes, feet, or legs. We believe that early prediction of diabetic patients' readmission, medication prescription at their first encounters, as well as patterns of diabetic medication usage can be really helpful to manage patients' diabetes, reduce the cost of diabetes care and improve the oveall healthcare quality of diabetes. Those are what the "Triple Aim" is pursuing. To address these problems, we use a diabetes dataset which represents 10 years of clinical care at 130 US hospitals. The dataset includes over 50 features representing patient and hospital outcomes in demographic, encounter, and diagnosis fields. We hope this project can be a simple predictive analytics implementation in healthcare sector and probably generalized to other diseases in the future.
